Make collect requests asynchronous (#193)
abetterinternet/ppm-specification: draft-gpew-priv-ppm.md

* `batch_interval`, the request's batch interval.
* `agg_param`, an aggregation parameter for the VDAF being executed.

Depending on the VDAF scheme and how the leader is configured, the leader and
helper may already have prepared all the reports falling within `batch_interval`
and be ready to return the aggregate shares right away, but this cannot be

> guaranteed and in some VDAFs, it may not be possible to begin preparing inputs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
guaranteed.  In fact, for some VDAFs, it is not be possible to begin preparing inputs
```

until the collector provides the aggregation parameter in the `CollectReq`. For

> those reasons, collect requests are handled asynchronously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these reasons, collect requests are handled asynchronously.
```

Upon receipt of a `CollectReq`, the leader begins by checking that the request
meets the requirements of the batch parameters using the procedure in
{{batch-parameter-validation}}. If so, it immediately sends the collector a
response with HTTP status 202 Accepted. The body consists of a `CollectResp`:

~~~
struct {
  Url collect_job;
} CollectResp;

> ~~~

Reviewer: Is sending a binary-encoded response with the URL necessary/desirable? What about just adding the URL as an HTTP header? What does ACME do here?

Reviewer 2: I would add a TODO just to get this done.

`CollectResp.collect_job` is a URL identifying the collect job that can be

> polled by the collector. It SHOULD contain an unpredictable component to

Reviewer 2: This SHOULD seems odd. If this is a real attack then there should be a MUST requiring high entropy.

I'm also not clear what an "enumeration" attack is. Presumably the leader has an access control mechanism, so what does it matter if I try /results/1 and get permission denied? And if it's supposed to prevent me knowing how many jobs there are, then I think this needs to be entirely unpredictable.

Author: You're right, it makes more sense to assume this is authenticated. I'll delete this text.

prevent enumeration attacks against a leader's collect results. The HTTP
response MAY include a Retry-After header field to suggest a polling interval to
the client.

The leader then begins working with the helper to prepare the shares falling
into `CollectReq.batch_interval` (or continues this process, depending on the
VDAF) as described in {{pa-aggregate}}. After receiving a `CollectResp`, the
collector periodically makes HTTP GET requests to `CollectResp.collect_job` to
check on the status of the collect job and eventually obtain the result. If the
collect job is not finished yet, the leader responds with HTTP status 202
Accepted and a `CollectResp`. The `CollectResp` MAY contain a different

> `collect_job` than previous `CollectResp`s and the HTTP response MAY include a

Reviewer 3: Q: what's the practical reason for allowing the `collect_job` to change?

Author: I didn't see a reason to require that it be the same, but I suppose we could instead insist that it always be the same. Or we could say nothing, implicitly permitting `collect_job` to change.

Reviewer 3: WDYT about having the `collect_job` handler return an HTTP 202 with an unspecified (or empty) body if the results aren't yet available? This removes the unnecessary flexibility of changing `collect_jobs` without requiring specification language.

This is pretty nit-picky; I'd personally go with an unspecified body to leave things maximally flexible while allowing us to specify later, but LGTM either way.

Reviewer: Allowing the collect job URL to change seems to add some complexity. If we don't need this complexity, than I suggest we remove it. In particular,  I'd propose removing this optional behavior.

Reviewer 2: I prefer @BranLwyd's suggestion here. Note that otherwise we have weird race conditions.

Author: I will incorporate Bran's idea.

`Retry-After` header field to suggest a polling interval to the collector.

Once all the necessary reports have been prepared, the leader obtains the
helper's encrypted aggregate share for the batch interval by sending an
`AggregateShareReq` to the helper as described in {{aggregate-share-request}}.
The leader then computes its own aggregate share by aggregating all of the
prepared output shares that fall within the batch interval.

> When both aggregator's shares are successfully obtained, then the leader

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When both aggregator's shares are successfully obtained, the leader
```

responds to subsequent HTTP GET requests to `CollectResp.collect_job` with HTTP
status 200 OK and a body consisting of a `CollectResult`:

~~~
struct {

>   EncryptedAggregateShare shares<1..2^8-1>;

Reviewer 3: This seems low -- do we really only want to support shares of up to 255 bytes? Notably, each EncryptedAggregateShare structure has several fields (`enc`, `payload`) that may be up to 64 KiB each, so currently a maximally-sized EncryptedAggregateShare may not fit in this vector.

Author: Ah, that's the second time I've made that mistake! I thought this meant up to 2^8-1 `EncryptedAggregateShare` structures, but you're right, it means number of bytes. I'll make this 2^24-1 to be safe.

>   EncryptedAggregateShare shares<1..2^24-1>;

Reviewer: Why the size increase here? It seems unlikely to me that we'll ever have aggregate shares larger than 2^16 - 1 bytes.

} CollectResult;
~~~

* `shares` is a vector of `EncryptedAggregateShare`s, as described in
  {{aggregate-share-request}}, except that for the leader's share, the `task_id`
  and `batch_interval` used to encrypt the `AggregateShare` are obtained from
  the `CollectReq`.

If obtaining aggregate shares fails, then the leader responds to subsequent HTTP
GET requests to `CollectResp.collect_job` with an HTTP error status and a
problem document as described in {{errors}}.

The leader SHOULD retain aggregate shares for a reasonable amount of time. Even
after serving a `CollectResult` to the collector, leaders SHOULD continue to
respond to further GET requests to `CollectResp.collect_job` in case the

> collector does not receive the response the first time.

Reviewer 2: I see why you are doing this and you have to for E2E reasons, but this seems hard to operationalize. I sugegest that instead we want a delete.

Author: I consulted ACME for inspiration here: [Section 7.4.2 Downloading the Certificate](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8555#section-7.4.2). ACME doesn't specify how long the certificate should be available for at all (and technically allows an ACME server to _never_ provide the cert). Maybe we can get away with saying nothing, too. In any case I wrote up the DELETE idea.
